Data Warehouse:
	
	Data warehouse is used to store large volume of data from multiple sources.
	Raulph Kimbell & Bell Inmon are the fathers of Data warehouse
	Data warehouse is built on top a database system to store data. Basically the relational database
	Mostly work with structured data
	SQL is the backbone of data warehouse
	
	Key charactersitics of a data warehouse:
		1. Integration
		2. Subject Oriented (data from multiple sources are organized )
		3. Time Varient (Historic data)
		4. Non Volatile (Up to date)
		
	Why Data warehouse:
		1. Making data driven decisions - Past, Present, Future
		2. One stop shop
		3. BI + DW = Value
		
	Architecture:
		1. Centralized data warehouse
			Todays Chanllenges with centralized
				Technology
				Work Processes
				Organizational & human factors
				
	ODS & Staging Layers:
		Extract information from source before it is being transformed
		Types:
			1. Non Persistent (Data will be removed after processing)
			2. Persistent	(Data will not be removed)
			
	ETL & ELT
		Schema on read & Schema on write
		
		Extract 
		
			Types:
				1. Initial Load
				2. Incremental Load 
					There will be mix & match with sources how data is loaded
			
			Incremental Load
				1. Append
				2. Inplace Update
				3. Complete Replacement
				4. Rolling Append
			
		Transformation:
			The goal is data uniformity
			
			1. Data value unification ( example Professor in one table and P in another table)
			2. Data type & size unification 
			3. Data De-Duplication
			4. Dropping Columns (removing unwanted columns) Vertical slicing
			5. Value based row filtering () Horizontal slicing
			6. correcting known errors
			
			
	Data warehouse design engineering:
		Dimension & Facts
		Dimensions Tables & Fact Tables
		Datawarehouse Schemas
			1. Star schema
			2. Snowflake schema
		
		Fact table is used to store the facts or measurements
		
			Different Forms of Additivity in Fact Tables
				1. Fully additive fact tables (design to get the additive sum of dimensions) How many products sold, How Many Orders customer placed
				2. Semi additive fact tables (getiing the average of the dimensions)
				3. Non additive fact tables
			
			Fact Table Type:
				1. Tractional Fact Table - Use to store transations
				2. Periodic Snapshot Fact Table - Use to store some periodic metrics - Total sales by month wise
				3. Accumulationg Snapshot Fact Table - example Measurement of changes over a period of time. For example, Application Process from Application Submittting, Initial Screening, Preliminary Decision, Final Decision, Payment
				4. Factless Fact Table
			
		Dimension table used to store the context about  the facts 
			
			Types of dimensions
				1. Role playing based dimensions (Primary column from dimensions table used in multiple columns of a fact table) example - Date Dimension
				2. Conformed dimensions - Date Dimensions and other fixed dimension table
				3. Junk dimensions - creating a dimension table in order to simplify the fact table for example course and location are mapped as two columns in fact table. Instead of it, creating a new dimension table course location and use that id in fact table
				4. Degenerated dimensions - any column that does not give any values to fact table for example a string column in fact table
				5. Slowly changing dimensions - changing slowly over time, rather than regularly
						Type-0 SCD - Not allowing override
						Type-1 SCD - Allowing override but no tracking of history
						Type-2 SCD - Allowing override and also tracks history
				6. Rapidly changing dimensions - updates takes place regularly - ex Transaction Tables
				
				